# **Chess Game AI (Move-Generation Engine)**

## **Description**
In this project I built a Chess-game AI (Engine that generates 
best possible moves and strategies) in javascript. This is the mystery code behind
the computers ability to generate moves in a game after the human-player 
has played his turn and is now the computer's turn. 
The AI is build using the
MinMax AlphaBeta search algorithm. more about this at 
http://web.archive.org/web/20080216031116/http://www.seanet.com/~brucemo/topics/topics.htm

#### **MinMax**
The basics of the min-max search algorithm is that it aims to 
select the move that will maximize the score of the player and
minimize the score of the opponent in the next few moves,
depending on the thinking-depth level which the you [as the 
programmer] specifies.

#### ***AlphaBeta***
The alpha-beta search algorithm is an addition to the min-max algorithm.
Its purpose is to reduce the time spent analysing each possible moves
by cutting out the analysis of certain move trees (or sequences) 
that the Algorithm deems to be unlikely to render a score greater than
the Alpha (max) score [for the player (the computer's side)] already
generated by the moves that have already been analysed and compared.

## **Getting Started**
To run this project, simply clone the repository and run the project using a 
live-server provided as an extention by most code editors. **Please 
open the browser-console too, to visualize the process 
when the program generates moves. **

## **Note**
The above is a basic explanation of the algorithm employed in this project.
Please be aware that getting a more detailed explanation of these search engines
is advised, before attempting to read the code, or building your own Game AI.
Also be aware that further optimization of the foundation algorithm -
that is the Minmax AlphaBeta search algorithm, were implemented and a sound knowledge
of the chess game is required to understand these optimizations.

Email: lungilesamukelomadi@gmail.com

